{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 Ashanti region: The Ashanti Region is the \ldblquote the cultural heartbeat of Ghana\rdblquote . The picturesque and undulating Kumasi is the regional capital, the second largest city in Ghana and is about 150 miles inland from the Gulf of Guinea. The Asantes (Ashantis) constitute the largest of the various subgroups of the Akan, who trace their origins partly to Bono-Manso and Techiman, in present-day Brong Ahafo Region. The Asante kingdom was founded by the great King Osei Tutu in the eighteenth century. His fetish priest, Okomfo Anokye unified the Asante states through allegiance to the Golden Stool, which miraculously descended from heaven. Okomfo Anokye planted two trees in the forest and predicted that one tree would live and become the capital of Ashanti. Hence, the name Kumasi (the tree that lived); the place in which the other tree was planted became Kumawu (the tree which died). The Ashanti tribe is one of the few matrilineal societies in West Africa. The Ashantis are most famous today for their craft work, particularly their hand-carved stools, fertility dolls and their colourful kente cloth. They are blessed with rich culture, and a home to pomp and pageantry. The region is also known for its historical and mythical landmarks. The main dishes of Ashantis include fufu with light soup, or \ldblquote abunu abunu\rdblquote  (green soup) or palm nut soup, ampesi (plantain, yam, cassava, cocoyam). Adowa, Kete and Nwomkoro are the traditional dances of the Ashantis and the renowned one is the Adowa. The Adowa is performed by people dressed in fine apparel especially the kente cloth. It is danced at major events, ceremonies, festivals, funerals and so on. There are other tribes who have migrated from their regions and are dispersed all over the region. The Ashantis are known to be very hospitable, so they have designated areas to these tribes where one can find most of them and have a feel of their culture.\par
\b0\par
Ahwiaa wood carvings: It is 9km on Mampong Road. Specializes in wood carvings such as stools, masks, fertility dolls and linquist staffs.\par
\par
Ntonso Adinkra Arts and crafts village: 18km on Mampong road. Noted for the stamping of adinkra designs on woven fabric. It is a settlement of Adinkra textile printers using traditional motifs and symbols which are an expression of religious, political and socio-cultural philosophies of the Asante.\par
\par
Bonwire Kente Weaving: Bonwire is the leading town for the production of Kente. A settlement of hundreds of Kente weavers. A wide variety of hand-woven Kente fabrics are obtainable in many of the local shops. 20km on the Antoa Road.\par
\par
Lake Bosomtwe: It is located 31 km southeast of Kumasi. .It is regarded as a sacred water body by the Ashantis. This picturesque Crater Lake is surrounded by dozens of fishing and farming villages. The lake basin is ideal for mountaineering, diving, swimming, fishing, hiking, building and relaxation. Tradition forbids fishing on the Lake on Sundays. The use of dugout canoes and paddles on the lake is also forbidden. It is by far the most expensive and deepest (90 m) natural fresh water body in Ghana with a surface area of around 25 km. Accessible by road from Kumasi.\par
\par
Kumasi Zoo: Kumasi zoological gardens (Kumasi zoo) was opened as a result of a decision taken in July 1951 by the Asanteman council to preserve Ashanti culture, foster social research and publish journals on Ashanti customs and other matters of general interest. Currently it holds a modest selection of Ghana\rquote s wildlife. A more remarkable feature of the zoo are the thousands of bats that rest on the trees. It is one of the most exciting, educative and recreational component.\par
\par
Pankrono pottery: 8km on Mampong Road. Renowned for its distinctive and colorful pottery created through tradition processes without the use of the potter\rquote s wheel.\par
\par
THE MANHYIA PALACE MUSEUM: The seat of the Ashanti King which houses a Royal Museum stocked with unique paraphernalia and life-size statues of notable Ashanti Kings and Queens, as well as a Gift Shop and Art Gallery. The Manhyia Palace Museum was created within the Old Residence of Otumfuo Agyeman Prempeh I and Otumfuo Sir Osei Agyeman Prempeh II, the thirteenth and fourteenth Kings of Ashanti respectively. This historic building, which was built in 1925, was rehabilitated in 1995. The Museum was officially opened on August 12, 1995 by Otumfuo Opoku Ware II, the 15th King, as part of activities marking the Silver Jubilee of his ascension to Sikadwa (Golden Stool). \par
\par
Okomfo Anokye Sword: It is housed within the Komfo Anokye Teaching hospital. History has it that ever since the sword was planted in the ground several years ago, no one has been able to pull it out.\par
\par
CENTRE FOR NATIONAL CULTURE: The Centre was built by Dr. A. A. Y Kyeremateng. It is a site which was set up to create a venue for the reinforcement of the Akan culture among the youth. The Centre is located opposite Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital and shares a wall with the Kumasi zoo. It is just a five minutes\rquote  walk from the Central market. This is an ideal place to start exploring the region. A cultural performance could be arranged for interested tourists for a fee. Essential information about the region and other parts of the country can be obtained from the Regional Tourist Information Office within the Centre for National Culture.\par
\par
GHANA ARMED FORCES MUSEUM (KUMASI FORT): The present Kumasi Fort was built by the British government in 1897 from a reconstruction of an old Fort built by Asante\rquote s in 1820. The old fort was built by Nana Osei Asibe Bonsu and used as his palace (Nana Bonsu Aban). He fought the Fante Wars of 1806-07 that took him to the Coast where he saw the castle in Cape Coast. He decided to build a fort like that occupied by his white friends in Cape Coast where he could live like the British Governor of Cape Coast. He more importantly admired the brown color of the granite used to build the castle in Cape Coast, so he made people carry head loads of granite from the Coast to Kumasi, molded them into bricks for the construction of the fort. However, it was mined and destroyed by Sir Garnet Wolseley\rquote s expedition in 1873/74. After the arrest and deportation of Asantehene Prempeh I, the British saw the wisdom in the old fort and reconstructed it to the plans of Captain Phillips of the Royal Engineers and named King George\rquote s Fort. The Museum was officially established in 1952 and it was then known as the Gold Coast Regimental Museum. But due to the tri-service nature of the armed forces in 1959 (Army, Navy, Air-Force), the name was changed to Armed Forces Museum. Now the museum has about 2,000 collections displayed in 10 halls covering Ashanti history, British colonial administration, and the military tradition of Ghana. The museum has a condemn cell where Yaa Asantewaa was detained before she was exiled to the Seychelles Island, and the spot the British kept the Gold weight of Nana Prempeh I.\par
\par
THE RATTRAY PARK-KUMASI CITY: Welcome to Rattray Park-Kumasi city, a modern-day garden with state-of -the-art recreational facilities and the best of serene natural environment located right in the heart of Kumasi, the \ldblquote Garden City of West Africa\rdblquote . The park provides 43,252.18m2 (10.69 acres) of open space located within 2km of the city centre and boasts of an international collection of flora from around the world. In addition to its purely botanical and floral nature, the park has a huge passive recreation and picnic area and facilities for families, business executives, schools, organized groups and individuals. The park is named after Robert Sutherland Rattray, CBE, known as Captain R. S. Rattray (1881-1938). As an early Africanist and a student of the Ashanti kingdom, he was one of the early writers on Oware and Ashanti Gold weights. The following features makes the park unique: \par
\f1\bullet  The Beautiful Floral Gardens\par
\bullet  Dancing Fountain\par
\bullet  The Jetty\par
\bullet  Open Gymnasium\par
\bullet  Children playground\par
\bullet  Golf Cart\par
\bullet  Cafeteria\par
\bullet  Wireless Internet\par
\bullet  Parking Spaces\f0\par
\par
THE PREMPEH II JUBILEE MUSEUM: It is located in the centre for national culture grounds. The museum houses a fascinating collection of Ashanti history such as memorabilia of Okomfo Anokye, including the over 300 years old antique treasure bag which he forbade anyone to open and a picture of the real golden stool which rarely appears in public.\par
\par
OWABI WILDLIFE SANCTUARY: 15km North East of Kumasi. An ideal habitat for winter migratory birds and hundreds of endangered Mona Monkeys. Knowledgeable guides are available to assist visitors through this tropical forest along meandering hiking trails around the Owabi River.\par
\par
THE BOMFOBIRI WILDLIFE SANCTUARY: About 80km north east of Kumasi. The reserve showcases a tropical landscape, vibrant waterfalls and a wide variety of birds and animal life. Assistance and clearance are available at the wildlife division.\par
\par
BOBIRI FOREST RESERVE AND BUTTERFLY SANCTUARY: About 20km on the Kumasi \f1\endash  Accra highway. A quiet research centre for the Forestry Research Institute showcasing an arboretum, forest hiking trails and a butterfly sanctuary. Guiding and interpretative materials are available.\par
\par
KOGYAE NATURE RESERVE\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 Kogyae strict nature reserve is a natural preservation area setup to protect the ecology and promote scientific research particularly on how nature revitalizes itself after major disasters. Historically the area constitutes the sites where the two traditional areas Kumawu and Kwaman, by treaty joined forces to fight invading enemies in one of their last victorious tribal wars.\par
\par
THE ATWEA MOUNTAIN\f0\lang1033 :\f1\lang9  Located 12 km from Nsuta and 52 km from Kumasi, it offers a beautiful view of Kumasi and the countryside.\f0\lang1033  It is also a place where Christians gather to pray.\f1\lang9\par
\par
MFRAMABUOM CAVES\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 These caves can be found at Kwamang, 53 km from Kumasi.\par
\par
ASHANTI GOLDFIELDS\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 This gold mine is located at Obuasi, 50 km southwest of Kumasi. It is one of the richest gold mines in the world and listed on the Johannesburg, Paris, Brussels, London, New York, Sydney and Ghana stock exchange. It has been merged with the biggest mining company in South Africa, AngloGold to become Anglogold Ashanti Ltd.\par
\par
ADANWOMASE KENTE VILLAGE\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 Strip-weaving has existed in West Africa since the 11th century and the village of Adanwomase has been weaving the cloth known today as Kente since the 17th Century. It has served as the royal weaving village for the Asantehene (Asante King).weavers create customized designs for clients. kente is used in worship and in ceremonies related to birth, marriage and death.\par
\par
ASUOFIA-ASAMANG\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 15km south of Kumasi on Barekese Road. Significant for the production of glass bead ornaments. AMPABAME-KROFROM 15km on Old Bekwei road. Specializes in brass casting through the lost-was process. The home of the Ashanti gold weights. ASANTE TRADITIONAL BUILDINGS Unique Ashanti architecture constructed with local materials and decorated with immensely interesting and educative motifs and symbols.\par
\par
\f0\par
\b Brong Ahafo region: Known as the \lquote food basket\rquote  of Ghana, the Brong Ahafo Region is located in mid-Ghana. The region serves as a transit for travelers from the South to the Northern part of Ghana. The inhabitants are warm and friendly people with diverse ethnic backgrounds. The Brong Ahafo region has rich and diverse cultural practices which can be traced back to their ancestral roots and culture. Their unique tourist attraction sites attract many people from far and near to the region. Sunyani, also known as the green city of Ghana is the regional capital. Sunyani can pride itself as the cleanest capital city and a major conference destination. The Brong Ahafo Region has a tropical climate with high temperatures averaging 23.89oC (75oF) and a double maxima rainfall pattern. The Region has two main vegetation types namely, the moist semi-deciduous forest mostly in the Southern and South-Eastern parts of the region, and the Guinea Savannah woodland mainly in the North-Eastern portion of the region.\par
\b0\par
Boabeng-Fiema monkey sanctuary: The Boabeng Fiema Monkey Sanctuary located 22km north of Nkoranza, hosts a rare breed of Monkeys which are considered citizens of the town. It is a superb sanctuary created in the then Nkoranza District in 1974 to protect the Sacred Monkeys that inhabit the forest around the villages of Boabeng and Fiema. The sanctuary is home to the black and white colobus monkeys and mona monkeys. The monkeys are used to human beings and are found on the compounds of the villages of Boabeng and Fiema. Accommodation facilities are available for tourists who may want to spend the night or stay longer for research.\par
\par
Buoyem Caves and Bats Colony: Hidden in a dry semi deciduous forest in the small rural community of Buoyem in the Techiman Municipality, the site offers an exciting habitat tour package of sandstone rocks and waterfalls, caves and Rosetta fruit bats.\par
\par
Kintampo Waterfalls: At the point where the Pumpu River falls some seventy (70) metres down beautiful rocky steps to continue its journey towards the Black Volta at Buipe, is the Kintampo Waterfalls. Located 4km away from the Kintampo Township on the Kintampo-Tamale highway, it consists of three (3) unique stages which can be accessed by a footpath. The final stage offers an exciting twist as the tourist can only access the beautiful waterfall by descending a windy flight of 152 stairs. Receptive facilities are available for tourists. There is also a rest stop and a 2-star rated accommodation facility in the neighborhood of the tourist site for tourists who may need to rest or stay overnight.\par
\par
Fuller Falls: Located on the Yoko River, at Yabraso which is 7km west of Kintampo town. The Fuller Falls offers the tourist a serene environment for activities such as retreats and picnics. The cascading nature of this waterfall over rocky surfaces before joining the Black Volta makes it a delight to watch.\par
\par
Tano Boase Sacred Grove: It is believed that the sacred grove is indeed the cradle of Bono Civilization. It is located in the Techiman Municipality. The grove served as a hideout for the Bono people during the slave trade and inter-tribal wars many, many years ago. It also serves as a place for recreation and religious activities.\par
\par
BONO MANSO SLAVE MARKET: An important landmark in the history of the Slave Trade in the Brong Ahafo Region. Located at Bono Manso on the Techiman- Kintampo road, Bono Manso was the point where slaves from the north were graded and sorted. The strongest of the captives were selected and sent to the coast leaving the weaker ones in the town. To date, African Americans and other African people in the Diaspora visit the area to learn about their origin and history.\par
\par
FORIKROM BOTEN SHRINE AND CAVES: Located about eight (8) kilometers off the Techiman \f1\endash  Nkoranza road, is a unique range of giant rocks which forms a haven like sort of shrine and caves. During the tribal wars between Asante and Takyiman in the past, it is believed that the Magic cave which is known as the biggest cave was a refuge for women and children.\par
\par
NCHIRAA WATERFALLS\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 Wedged between the mountains of the Nchiraa settlement, the Nchiraa Waterfalls is located 30 kilometres north of Wenchi. The tourist is offered a hiking adventure on a rocky and challenging footpath that leads to the waterfall. The existence of other natural and cultural tourism within 10km radius makes the tour package exhilarating.\f0\lang1033  \f1\lang9 These include the Wurobo Ancestral Cave which is located about 8km from the Nchiraa settlement. The cave is believed to be the original dwelling place of the people of Nchiraa.\par
\par
DUASIDAN MONKEY SANCTUARY\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 Located 10km southwest of Dormaa Ahenkro, this sanctuary hosts a rare breed of Mona Monkeys. The tourist is welcomed by the presence of these monkeys as you enter their forest-like abode. Bamboo trees form a canopy in the middle of the forest which serves as a resting ground for visitors. Monkeys can be seen swinging up and down tree branches and peeling bananas left out for them. It is quite an interesting sight to behold as the visitor gets the chance to see how monkeys carry their babies on the move.\par
\par
KINTAMPO\f0\lang1033 , \f1\lang9 GEOGRAPHICAL CENTRE OF GHANA\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 Kintampo is the geographical centre of Ghana. The exact point denoting the centre of Ghana is marked by a monument with Ghana\rquote s coat of arms. The kintampo town serves as a transit point for travelers from the North to the South and vice versa. Due to its location, it attracts people from all walks of life.\f0\lang1033  \f1\lang9 The Kintampo town is also known for its commercial activities and the famous Kintampo Health Training Institute. Also notable in Kintampo is the British cemetery which once served as a cemetery for members of the Gold Coast Regiment.\par
\par
BUI NATIONAL PARK\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 A park that covers 1,821 kilometer square and covers part of the Black Volta River, the Bui National Park is endowed with several species of antelopes and a variety of birds. It is also known for its hippopotamus population. The tourist can take a cruise on the Black Volta River through the National Park.\par
\par
BUI DAM\f0\lang1033 :\f1\lang9  Located at the base of the Banda Mountains, the Bui Dam was built to improve Ghana\rquote s energy requirements.\par
\par
HANI ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITE\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 One of the few archaeological sites in Ghana, the Hani archaeological site is located at Wenchi. The visitor can access the site of digging and the settlement by walking about 3kms from the Hani village in the Wenchi District. Foretold to be the early settlement of the Begho people, some of its artefacts and relics from 12th Century civilization can be found in the Chief\rquote s Palace.\par
\par
BUSIA MAUSOLEUM\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 This mausoleum was built in memory of the late Professor K.A. Busia, a Prime Minister of the 2nd Republic of Ghana. Located on the Wenchi-Nsawkaw road about 400 meters from the centre of Wenchi town, the Busia Mausoleum displays some artefacts and personal items used by Dr. Busia. It also takes the tourist back to ancient times when those items were used.\par
\par
RIVER TANO SACRED FISH\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 This pool houses sacred fishes which are fiercely protected by the local community who live along the River Tano near Techiman.\par
\par
ASUMURA\f0\lang1033  \f1\lang9 WHITE NECKED ROCK FOWL CONSERVATION\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 Located in the forests of Asumura near Akrodie in the Brong Ahafo Region, is the home of a very rare species of birds which is considered as one of Africa\rquote s most desirable birds by birders. The white necked rockfowl is lanky with a long neck and tail. It ony hops and has its mud built nest built beneath giant hanging rocks.\par
\par
NWOASE OSTRICH FARM\f0\lang1033 : \f1\lang9 Located at Nwoase near Wenchi, is the Ostrich farm. The Ostrich is known to be the largest living bird. It has a long neck, long legs and two toes on each foot. The tourist can make a stop at the farm to see one of nature\rquote s wonders as the male ostrich can reach a height of up to 2.75m.\par
\f0\par
\b Central Region: Central Region Your visit to Ghana wouldn\rquote t be complete without a visit to the region which is known to be the heart beat of Ghana\rquote s tourism. From the coastal plains in the south to the rolling forested hills of the north, the Central Region is a visual feast for the tourist. More than just physical beauty, the region provides an intimate view of the Ghanaian culture. It is within the Central Region that you will discover the true lifestyle of the Ghanaian people embedded in the bustling fishing communities, historic forts and castles, posuban shrines, vibrant markets and colourful festivals. Approximately two hours drive west of Accra, Cape Coast, the capital of the Central Region is well prepared for your visit with classified accommodation and catering units, established tour operators, efficient transportation and a whole host of activities for you to enjoy. The Central Region was historically part of the Western Region until 1970 when it was carved out just before the 1970 Population Census. It occupies an area of 9,826 square kilometres or 4.1 per cent of Ghana\rquote s land area, making it the third smallest in area after Greater Accra and Upper East. The region was the first to make contact with the Europeans. Its capital, Cape Coast, was also the capital of the Gold Coast until 1877, when the capital was moved to Accra. The region is predominantly Akan speaking (82.0%), followed by Guan (6.1%) and Ewe (4.8%). The Fantes, who are mainly along the coast, are the predominant group among the Akan (56.6%).\par
\b0\par
Cape Coast Castle: Designated by UNESCO as World Heritage Site, the Cape Coast Castle is described as one of the six most beautiful in existence with a very rich history. Originally built by the Swedes in 1653 for commercial trading purposes between the natives and the European traders, the castle has been at various times controlled by the British, the Dutch, the Danes and the French. The monument played an integral role during the Trans-Atlantic slave trade during which millions of slaves were shipped to the Americas. The Cape Coast Castle presents one with a comprehension and appreciation of the age of European exploration, interaction between Europeans, Africans and the Carribeans. The \lquote door of no return\rquote  which for more than 100years opened to the certainty of a short and brutal life for the millions of Africans that were captured off these shores and sold into slavery, now opens to the serene and awesome vastness of the Atlantic ocean. On July 11, 2009 President Obama and his family were conducted round the castle on their inaugural presidential visit to Sub-Saharan Africa.\par
\par
Elmina Castle: Another World Heritage Site, the Elmina Castle is located at Elmina, which is just 10km west of Cape Coast. Elmina happens to be the first point of contact between the Europeans and the inhabitants of Ghana, then Gold Coast. In 1471, when a Don Diego d\rquote  Azambuja led Portuguese expedition arrived, they referred to Elmina as \ldblquote Mina de Ouro\rdblquote  meaning the gold mine because of the vast amount of gold and ivory they found.  Trading was imminent and Elmina became the centre of a thriving trade in gold, ivory and slaves which were exchanged for cloth, beads, brass bracelets etc. The Portuguese built the St. Georges Castle or Sao Jorge da Mina (now Elmina Castle) in 1482. The edifice covered an area of 97,000 sq ft becoming the earliest known European structure in the tropics. As trade buoyed, it attracted other Europeans and a struggle for control ensued. The Dutch eventually captured the castle and remained in its control for the next 235 years. On 6th April, 1872, the castle was ceded to the British. It has served as a police recruit centre and a secondary school in the past. Elmina Castle has a gift shop and tour guides are available to willingly offer their services daily.\par
\par
Fort Saint Jago: The present location of the fort used to be a small Portuguese Chapel. By the 1660s, the Dutch had constructed a permanent fort to provide military protection to the castle and also serve as disciplinary institution for European convicts, unlike other forts that were used for trading activities. Strategically located within a walking distance from the Elmina Castle, it provided the Dutch the opportunity to launch successful land attacks on the Elmina Castle. After 1872, its English owners added some alterations such as a second floor to the main building allowing the fort to be put to some civilian uses. Recently, it was earmarked to be used as a prison, hospital and rest house. Its location on a hill affords one an excellent view of Elmina Township and the Castle. The 19th Century Dutch Cemetery is located in the centre of Elmina near the \ldblquote Posuban\rdblquote  Shrine (one will notice it by the life \f1\endash size statues and high decorated fa\f0\'e7ade). As the name suggests, it was built in the 19th Century and it contains the graves of many former residents of the Castle. It also harbours the graves of individuals who were important to the local citizenry. A mausoleum at the centre of the cemetery was reserved for the tombs of the Castle\rquote s Governors.\par
\par
Fort Williams Cape Coast: In 1753, the British Parliament voted enormous sums for the construction of a new trading fort in Anomabu, now part of the Central Region of Ghana.  Completed by 1757, it was erected on \lquote an eroded shelf of hard rock close to a sandy beach indentation with a sheltered anchorage\rquote  .  Earlier, in 1674, the English had built a small fort, named Fort Charles, after the reigning monarch King Charles II. The English demolished Fort Charles in 1731, to prevent its capture and use by another European company - notably their archrival in overseas colonisation, the French.  The French, however, rebuilt a fort where Fort Charles once stood. Regretting the loss of their Anomabu fort, the English hastened to then build a new one - Fort William. The fort was probably christened Fort William by 19th century commander Brodie Cruickshank in honour of King William IV, upon the completion of another one storey apartment. Constructed almost entirely with local materials, Fort William is considered \lquote one of the handsomest and best built of the Coast\rquote  . However, \lquote nowhere else does the original structure of a fort include a large prison specifically built to hold slaves awaiting transport overseas\rquote  . Speaking about Anomabu slave exports, an English captain said in 1717, \ldblquote [From] January 1702 to August 1708 they took to Barbados, Jamaica a total of not less than 30,141 slaves\rdblquote  . Fort William had a superior stock of cannons; yet it was attacked by the French in 1794 and \lquote besieged by the Asantes on 15th June, 1806 a day after which it capitulated \rquote . Once a rest house and a post office, then a state prison (till 2001), Fort William now serves Anomabu as a community library.\par
\par
Fort Victoria: Constructed in 1821 on the site of a ruined fort built in 1712, Fort Victoria was formerly known as \lquote Phipp\rquote s Tower\rquote , in honour of its initial constructor English Governor Phipps. It was later renamed Fort Victoria after Queen Victoria of Great Britain. Perched on a hill on the western part of the Cape Coast Township in the Central Region, the fort overlooks both the Atlantic Ocean and the historic town. Fort Victoria was used as an outlook post for signalling purposes. Fort Victoria has been preserved as a monument. The fort is in a respectable condition.\par
\par
Fort Vedenburgh: Preserved as a ruin, Fort Vendenburg is located in Dutch Komenda in the Central Region.\par
\par
Fort Amsterdam: Overlooking a coconut palm beach, the originally-British fort, Fort Amsterdam, sits on a hill in Kormantin-Abandze in the Central Region. The leasing of the site for the fort was engineered in 1631 by Arent Groote, a disgruntled former employee of the Dutch West India Company, on behalf of the English company, \lquote The Governor and Company of Adventurers of London Trading to Guynney and Binney\rquote  . Arent Groote persuaded the Ambro Braffo (Chief of the Fanti state) to sign exclusive trading rights to the British, who then proceeded to construct a lodge to coagulate their claim to the area. In 1640, the lodge was destroyed by fire. Believing the Dutch to be the arsons, a charge fervently denied, the British built a heavily fortified fort. The new fort had four bastions linked by thick walls, and a three storey apartment. In 1661, the Royal African Company obtained ownership of the fort, and it became the headquarters of English Gold Coast activities. Dutch Admiral Michiel Adriaensz De Ruyter captured the fort in 1665 after a \lquote long and bloody battle\rquote  . He reconstructed the fort and named it Fort Amsterdam.  In 1811, the people of Anomabu, who were English allies, attacked and destroyed the fort. It is believed that the first slave prison on the Gold Coast was in its hollow southeast bastion. The name Kormantin was synonymous on the Caribbean Islands for hard to subdue slaves, especially those originating from the Gold Coast. Never reoccupied, Fort Amsterdam remained as a ruin until its 1951 restoration by the Ghana Museums and Monuments Board. It is presently open to the public.\par
\par
Fort Lisdzaamhied (Patience): Fort Patience, built on the apex of a promontory , overlooking a serene beach and bay, is situated on the coastline of the Gulf of Guinea at Apam, in the Central Region. The fort was constructed between 1697 and 1702 by the Dutch. Originally called Fort Lijdzaamheid (\lquote Patience\rquote  being the English translation), the fort was built to secure Dutch trade lines, and to guard its protectorate from its powerful British-controlled neighbours, the Agona and the Fante ethnic groups. For five years, the indigenous people repeatedly held up construction of the fort, from its initiation in 1697, until 1702, over the inappropriateness of its size. The Fort\rquote s original structure was a small two-storey stone lodge, but the people, on the other hand, preferred an impressive, properly fortified building that would serve as the stronghold of their defence and hence a compelling deterrent to future attacks. Between 1701 and 1721, the Dutch reinforced Fort Patience by erecting a demi-bastion on the northwest and the southeast.  The fort has since served as a police station and a post office. Fort Patience is currently used as a rest house.\par
\par
Fort Good Hope: Fort Good Hope is strategically sited on a promontory near a cove, looking out on a tranquil beach lined with coconut palms in the town of Senya Beraku in the Central Region. The Fort was erected in 1715 by the Dutch, who were looking to tap into the gold, ivory and slave trade in the hinterland kingdom of Akyem. Fort Good Hope was initially a small triangular fort, shielded by three bastions and a curtain wall. An apartment building is shielded by the south curtain wall. Inter-ethnic wars between the Asante, Akyem and Akwamu ethnic groups, among others, led to such huge increases in prisoners-of-war slaves, that in 1715 the fort was expanded to include large male and female slave prisons. In an official report of 1804, Fort Good Hope was aptly described as \ldblquote one of the finest and most spacious forts on the coast\rdblquote  . This was the last fort built in the Gold Coast. Believed to have the potential to bring grand proceeds from gold trade, the fort was christened 'De Goede Hoop', meaning \lquote Good Hope\rquote . Ironically, the expected boom never occurred. The British gained possession of the fort during the 1868 exchange of forts. Fort Good Hope presently serves as a rest house.\par
\par
Komenda Cave: It is located on the ocean shore, west of Komenda town. The Cave dominates a series of natural erosional features worn into the sandstone along the shore by sea. Accessibility is made easy by stairs leading to the beach from the Komenda College grounds.  The Cave is made up of a relatively narrow tunnel, open at both ends with a floor area of approximately 200sqm. The passage is narrowed by rock debris and the low ceiling, limits the usage of the floor space. The mouth of the Cave opens to the west at the beach level and leads northeast, parallel to the shore. The interior opening at the back (eastern end) of the cave is formed by the collapse of a portion of the Cave\rquote s roof. The site provides some of the earliest evidence for human habitation in coastal Ghana according to archaeologists.\par
\par
Brenu Akyinim Beach: Brenu Akyinim Beach is located between the villages of Ankwanda and Brenu Akyinim. It is sited at about 20km west of Cape Coast, off the Cape Coast \f1\endash  Takoradi highway. It\rquote s a 3-kilometre fabulous stretch of pristine palm-fringed, sandy beach where the water is clean providing an ideal site for swimming, surfing, skiing and sun bathing.\f0\lang1033  \f1\lang9 It\rquote s an excellent site for picnic and beach sports (i.e. football and volleyball). There is also a peaceful lagoon nearby, a winter home of hundreds of migratory birds.\f0\par
\par
Kakum National Park: Kakum National Park is one of the popular National Parks in Ghana characterised by its moist evergreen rainforest, the 375 sq.km National Park is situated about 30km north of Cape Coast, the Central Regional Capital and about 170km from Accra. Kakum National Park is endowed with different and rare species of wildlife including 40 species of mammals, over 500 species of butterflies and a wide array of birds. Some of the species include the endangered monameekat, civet cats, yellow backed duiker, red river hog, pygmy elephants, buffalo, leopard, bongo, bee-eater and hornbills. Kakum National has a long series of hanging bridges at the forest canopy level known as the \ldblquote Canopy Walkway\rdblquote , a major feature of the Kakum National Park. At about 30m in height, visitors can view species of plants and animals from a vantage point. The Canopy Walkway passes over seven (7) bridges and covers a length of 350m. It is secured by series of nets and wires. Another feature is the sun bird trail developed to integrate 3 ecosystems including the rainforest, the secondary forest and a pond environment for visitors to watch birds. The park\rquote s welcome centre is made up of a restaurant, a picnic area, a camping area and a wildlife education centre. It can be visited throughout the year.\par
\par
Assin Manso Heritage Site and Slave River: Assin Manso Heritage Site is located about 40km north of Cape Coast. Assin Manso is renowned for the inhuman activity meted out to people during the Trans-Atlantic slave trade era. Slaves brought from the interior parts of the country were rested, bathed, sorted out and re- sold, before transported via the Cape Coast and Elmina Castles to waiting ships bound for the Americas. The Slave River or \ldblquote Nnonkonsuo\rdblquote  happens to be the major feature of the Assin Manso Slave Market Site. While at this Site, visitors can visit the tombs of two slaves, Samuel Carson and Crystal whose skeletal remains were returned from the United States of America and Jamaica respectively in 1998 for re- internment in Ghana. Other land marks include a Prayer Hall and grassy Meditation lawn. The banks of the Slave River are shaded by tall bamboo trees with rest benches available for visitors to relax and reflect on the tribulation of the salve trade.\par
\par
International Stingless Bee Centre: In 2005, the CS Fund, from California, USA approved a project proposal by Prof. Peter Kwapong to carry out a Stingless Bee Project to train rural farmers in Stingless Beekeeping as an alternative source of livelihood. The idea of Stingless Bees came up in 2003 when Prof. Kwapong visited Brasil where he first came into contact with stingless beekeeping. Back in Ghana, he carried out research which revealed that most of our forests are actually inhabited by stingless bees. Together with 3 of his graduate students then, Prof. Kwapong initiated the Stingless Bee Project within the catchment of the Kakum National Park. The project started by training twenty-five rural farmers selected from five communities around the National Park. By the end of 2006, about nine species of stingless bees had been identified; of which 4 are being cultured at the Center. The Ghana Heritage and Conservation Trust, an NGO in Ghana, donated a 20-acre parcel of a secondary tropical rain forest, bordering the Kakum National Park, to serve as a sanctuary for the stingless bees. An acre of the land was later developed into the International Stingless Bee Center which was intended as a research and service center for all stingless bee keepers to address their problems. Various species of stingless bees found throughout the country were collected and housed in artificial wooden hives at the center for culturing, research, management and development of their medicinal hive products. Through the benevolent funding from CS Fund for four continuous years, the project was transformed into the only International Stingless Bee Center in Africa. The center over the years has trained more than 200 Farmers, Beekeepers, Agricultural Extension Agents and Staff of Timber and Fruit Growing Companies throughout the 10 regions of Ghana. Some bee keepers from neighbouring West African countries have also received training in stingless beekeeping at the Center. At the moment, the Center has established five satellite stingless beekeeping stations within 5 communities in Ghana. The Center also attracts many foreign and local students including researchers and post doctoral research fellows for short term research collaborations. Since its inception, many of our local students from the University of Cape Coast have been carrying out research and practical lessons at the Center. The medicinal hive products of the stingless bees have caught the attention of the world due to their medicinal and health properties. This has enabled the center to engage in some core activities including Research, Training and Development, Hive Product Development and Marketing, Environmental Education and Ecotourism. The ISBC provides an excellent experience of a tropical rain forest environment which is very attractive and friendly to all visitors who come to enjoy its serenity and also to learn about these wonderful  BEES THAT DO NOT STING!\par
\par
Ostrich Farm at Efutu-Mampong: Ostrich Farm is located at Effutu Mampong about fourteen kilometers from Cape Coast on the Kakum National Park road. The ostrich is the world\rquote s largest living bird belonging to the small order of birds known as Ratitae or running birds. The Ostrich can live up to between 30-70 years.\par
\par
Hans Cottage Botel Crocodile Viewing: Tourist to the region, specifically Cape Coast will get the opportunity viewing crocodile at Hans Cottage Botel located along the Cape Coast Kakum National Park road.\par
\par
\b Eastern region: The Eastern Region occupies a land area of 19,323 kilometers and constitutes 8.1 percent of the total land area of Ghana. It is the sixth largest region in terms of land area and the third highest in terms of population distribution in the country. It lies between latitudes 1\'b030\rquote  west and 0\'ba30\rquote  east. The Eastern Region offers a number of Ghana\rquote s popular tourist attractions, highly diversified cultural and historic heritage and intriguing landscape of tropical forests. The Region is dominated by the Volta Lake, one of the world\rquote s largest man-made lakes and Akosombo Dam which is the main source of Ghana\rquote s hydroelectric power and a cruise on the Volta Lake to Dodi Island. The region exhibits cultural diversity at its best with its exquisite African queens popularly known as the \ldblquote Koforidua Flowers\rdblquote  in the Region\rquote s capital. The Region\rquote s proximity to Accra, the nation\rquote s capital is a pulling factor for tourist making tour decisions to Ghana with the background of the development in infrastructure and social services. The fast opening of the Region has paved way for proliferation of banks and other financial institutions. Even though there is a regular Beads Market, Eastern Region is noted to have the only Thursday Beads Market which draws Beads Sellers & Buyers the world over to the Region.\par
\b0\par
Afram Plains\par
Akim Abompe\par
Boti Waterfall\par
Bunso Aboretum\par
Kutunse earth satellite\par
Aburi Botanical Gardens\par
\par
Akosombo Dam: Also known as the Akosombo Hydroelectric Project is a hydroelectric dam on the Volta River in southeastern Ghana in the Akosombo gorge and part of the Volta River. Lake Volta is the largest man-made lake in the world by surface area. It covers 8,502 square kilometers (3,283 sq. mi), which is 3.6% of Ghana\rquote s land area. The Dam over the years has been a major destination for educational tourism especially for students.\par
\par
Dodi Island: Dodi is an island in Ghana, located 5 kilometers off the shore of Lake Volta. It is a tourist destination and a land place for the cruise ship, Dodi Princess. The Dodi Princess ferries revelers from an embarkation point in Akosombo and cruises to the Dodi Island amidst musical funfair of life band on board, food and drinks. It has a swimming pool on board for both kids and adults.\par
\par
Tetteh Quarshie Cocoa Farm: Mampong Akwapim The first cocoa farm established in the Country from seeds first brought from Fernando Po Island by the Legendary Tetteh Quarshie. From this small beginning grew our major cocoa industry. It is believed that a few of the original first trees planted by Tetteh Quarshie can still be found on the farm.\par
\par
Aburi Botanical Gardens: Aburi The Aburi Botanic Garden is one of the most beautiful peaceful and fascinating places in the Eastern Region. The gardens is both an educational and aesthetic experience, research purpose  with beautiful palm lined lanes and a wide variety of traditional, medicinal plants, including a silk cotton tree (Ceiba pentrandra) that is the sole survivor of the original forest that once covered the Aburi hills.\par
\par
Odweanoma Mountain (Atibie Paragliding): Paragliding is a recreational and adventurous sport or activity of flying a paraglide, which essentially consist of a suspending rectangular wing connected to a harness (where the pilot of the paraglide sits) by suspending ropes. There are two types; Solo Paragliding and Tandem Paragliding. Solo Paragliding is where only the pilot sits in the harness and launches himself off a mountain top whiles in Tandem Paragliding, the pilot carries a passenger along with him in the harness. The adventurous sporting has its launch pad (take off point) at the Odweanoma Mountains which is also host to a receptive facility and other adventurous attractions. Odomankoma Ahenfie Rock Odomankoma Ahenfie Rock is a Tourist Attraction at Aboabo a village near Begoro in the Fanteakwa District. Odomankoma Rock is made up of rocks which are naturally carved into multiple types of shapes like oware, earthenware bowl, blackboard and other marvelous shapes which makes the site a very interesting place to be and has a serene environment. The amazing part about the site is that a sick person gets healed after touching them, so with Odomankoma Ahenfie Rock one does not just enjoy the fascinating and artistic beauty of the rocks but also gets healed when a sick person touches them. \par
\par
Tini Water Falls: Adasawasi Tini Waterfall is located in a lush ever green forest about 6km from Adasawase, a small farming community of about 6km from Anyinam off the Accra-Kumasi highway in the Atiwa District of the Eastern region. The attraction consists of spectacular cascading waterfalls over a giant rock formation and an ancient cave.\par
\par
Bunso Arboretum & Canopy Walk Way: The Bunso Aboretum is home to different species of trees, butterflies and birds. This makes it lovely for visitors to have nature\rquote s walk. Mobile swimming pool and bouncy castle are also available in the park during holidays and special programmes. The canopy walkway which is the latest addition of adventure walkway to the parks is connected to six (6) trees including devil\rquote s tree and Dahoma tree with five (5) platforms that reach the height of 35m and length of 210m.\par
\par
The Big Tree at Akim Oda: This is biggest and accessible tree in West Africa. It is located at Asantemanso near Akim Oda in Esen \f1\endash  Epam Forest Reserve. An artificial forest has been planted to differentiate it from the existing natural forest.\par
\f0\par
Adjeikrom Cocoa Trail: Begoro as they say has a fascinating side of the town aside it being the largest village in West Africa, it has a lot of tourist attractions that makes the town unique than other neighbouring towns. Adjeikrom (the town was named after the founder Samuel Adjei) is located on the main Osiem-Begoro road, off the Koforidua-Kumasi highway in the Fanteakwa District. Tourists do go to Adjeikrom Cocoa Trail prominently for Cocoa Farm Tour, Village Tour and Mountain Hiking. Adjeikrom Cocoa Trail also plays a role in the production of cocoa in the Agricultural Industry.\par
\par
Boti Waterfalls: Boti Falls Boti falls which is a twin water fall which is embedded at the heart of the Huhunya forest reserve. The fall is situated about 17km North-East of Koforidua. The falling of the water is seasonal in nature because of Climate change. The fall is usually at its best from March to August which is the rainy seasons.\par
\par
Odumankoma Ahenfie Rock Formation: \par
\par
Bruku shrine Kwahu: Bruku Shrine which is located in Kwahu Tafo is a reserve deity among the people of Kwahu. In the olden days, most of the people where traditional worshippers who made pilgrimages to the shrine to pay homage.\par
\par
Air Jays Canopy & Zipline Obo-Kwahu 0508918124\par
\par
\b Greater Accra region\b0\par
Shai Hills\par
Achimota Forest Reserve\par
Kwame Nkrumah Mausoleum and Memorial Park\par
Makola Market, Accra\par
Osu Night market\par
Old lighthouse in James Town\par
Independence Square\par
National Theatre\par
Osu Castle\par
Kane Kwei Carpentry Workshop (Designer Coffins)\par
W.E.B. DuBois Memorial Center\par
Artists Alliance Gallery\par
Labadi Beach\par
\par
\par
\b Northern region\par
\b0 Daboya\par
Mole National Park\par
Larabanga Mosque\par
KPARIA WATERFALLS AND COMMUNITY TOURISM:\par
Salaga Slave market\par
SAAKPULI SLAVE SITE\par
\par
\b Upper East region\b0\par
Paga\par
Sirigu\par
Tengzug\par
\par
\b Upper West region\b0\par
Gwollu\par
Wechiau\par
Gbelle Game Reserve\par
\par
\b Volta region\par
\b0 Amedzofe/ Mount Gemi\par
Kpetoe\par
Liati Wote\par
Kyabobo National Park\par
Tafi-Atome Monkey Sanctuary\par
Wli Waterfalls\par
Avu-Lagoon\par
Afadzato\par
\par
\b Western region\par
\b0 Ankasa National Park \par
Nzulezu - A village on stilts\par
Wassa Domama\par
Busua Pleasure Beach \f1\endash  only 5km from Fort Metal Cross\par
Sports Club beach \endash  behind the Atlantic Hotel in Takoradi\par
Ajua Beach \endash  just 200 metres from Dadowa Lagoon\par
Princesstown Beach \endash  off Takoradi/Elubo Highway\par
Miamia Beach \endash  a secluded beach with rocky coves, perfect for picnics\par
\par
\par
\par
\f0\lang1033 contacts\par
Tafi Atome Monkey Sactuary\par
0245458170 \f1\endash  Office\par
0245457979 \endash  Manager\par
\par
Mount Gemi/Ote Falls \endash  Amedzofe\par
0248187691 \endash  Office\par
0208413538 \endash  Chairman\par
\par
Wli Waterfalls\par
\par
0362092103 \endash  Office\par
0201401581 \endash  Site\par
Guide 0202572400/9243560087 \endash  Chairman\par
\par
Mount Afadja/Tagbo Falls \endash  Liate Wote \par
0289540445 \endash  Office\par
\par
Avu Lagoon Ecotourism (Xavi Bird Sancturay)\par
\par
0200938316/0242585991 \endash  Treasurer\par
0247291741 \endash  Site Guide Kyabobo National Park\par
0249306082 \endash  Site Guide Likpe Todome Ancestral\par
0540941664\par
\par
Caves\par
\par
0242669248 0268165644 Kpetoe Kente Weaving\par
0244212541 Grotto \endash  Kpando Agbenorxoe\par
0285361597 Kakakpa Resource Reserve \endash  Abutia\par
0209423808 \endash  Tourism Officer Keta Ramsar Site\par
0243168865 \endash  Site Guide\par
\par
Adidime Falls \endash  Klefe\par
\par
0547101218 0200374352\par
\par
\f0 All information were retrieved from Ghana Meseums and Monuments Board and Ghana Tourism Authority websites (Ghana Meseums and Monuments Board also cited other books and articles.). Some more information was retrieved from {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.stinglessbeecenter.com/index.php/component/content/article/2-uncategorised/24-welcome }}{\fldrslt{http://www.stinglessbeecenter.com/index.php/component/content/article/2-uncategorised/24-welcome\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\lang9\par
}
 